Acetohydroxamic acid||In 1983 the US Food and Drug Administration approved acetohydroxamic acid as an orphan drug for 'prevention of so-called struvite stones' underthe newly enacted Orphan Drug Act of 1983. AHA cannot be patented becauseit is a standard chemical compound.
Acetrizoic acid||Acetrizoic acid (trade names Gastrografina , Urografina inPortugal) is a molecule used as an X-ray contrast medium.
Ascorbic acid||More than two to three grams may cause indigestion, particularly when taken onan empty stomach. However, taking vitamin C in the form of sodium ascorbateand calcium ascorbate may minimize this effect. Other symptoms reportedfor large dose include nausea, abdominal cramps and diarrhea. These effectsare attributed to the osmotic effect of unabsorbed vitamin C passing throughthe intestine. In theory, high vitamin C intake may cause excessiveabsorption of iron. A summary of reviews of supplementation in healthysubjects did not report this problem, but left as untested the possibilitythat individuals with hereditary hemochromatosis might be adverselyaffected. There is a longstanding belief among the mainstream medicalcommunity that vitamin C increases risk of kidney stones. 'Reports ofkidney stone formation associated with excess ascorbic acid intake are limitedto individuals with renal disease'. Reviews state that 'data fromepidemiological studies do not support an association between excess ascorbicacid intake and kidney stone formation in apparently healthyindividuals', although one large, multi-year trial did report a nearlytwo-fold increase in kidney stones in men who regularly consumed a vitamin Csupplement. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, with dietaryexcesses not absorbed, and excesses in the blood rapidly excreted in theurine, so it exhibits remarkably low acute toxicity.
Asparagusic acid||Recent research is consistent with attributing the origin of asparagus urineto asparagusic acid, a substance unique to this vegetable. Moststudies of the compounds responsible for the odour of asparagus urine havecorrelated the appearance of the compounds above with asparagus consumption;they appear as little as 15 minutes after consumption. However, this doesnot provide information on the biochemical processes which lead to theirformation. Asparagusic acid and lipoic acid are similar in that both possess a1,2-dithiolane ring with a carboxylic acid tethered to it; indeed, it has beenreported that asparagusic acid can substitute for lipoic acid in α-keto-acidoxidation systems such as the citric acid cycle. The ( _R_)-(+)-enantiomer of α-lipoic acid is a cofactor in the pyruvate dehydrogenasecomplex and is essential for aerobic metabolism. The degradation pathway oflipoic acid has been well studied and includes evidence of reduction of thedisulfide bridge, _S_ -methylation, and oxidation to produce sulfoxides.Similar transformations of asparagusic acid would lead to metabolites likethis detected in asparagus urine. Synthetic work has confirmed the relativeease of oxidation of asparagusic acid to yield _S_ -oxides of the dithiolanering. The rate of degradation appears highly variably between subjects; thetypical half-life for odour disappearance is around 4 h with a between subjectvariability of 43.4%.
Azelaic acid||Azelaic acid is used to treat mild to moderate acne, both comedonal acne andinflammatory acne. It belongs to a class of medication calleddicarboxylic acids. It works by killing acne bacteria that infect skin pores.It also decreases the production of keratin, which is a natural substance thatpromotes the growth of acne bacteria. Azelaic acid is also used as atopical gel treatment for rosacea, due to its ability to reduceinflammation. It clears the bumps and swelling caused by rosacea. Themechanism of action is thought to be through the inhibition of hyperactiveprotease activity that converts cathelicidin into the antimicrobial skinpeptide LL-37. Azelaic acid has been used for treatment of skinpigmentation including melasma and postinflammatory hyperpigmentation,particularly in those with darker skin types. It has been recommended as analternative to hydroquinone. As a tyrosinase inhibitor, azelaic acidreduces synthesis of melanin.
Behenic acid||Commercially, behenic acid is often used to give hair conditioners andmoisturizers their smoothing properties. It is also used in lubricatingoils, and as a solvent evaporation retarder in paint removers. Its amide isused as an anti-foaming agent in detergents, floor polishes and driplesscandles. Reduction of behenic acid yields behenyl alcohol.
Benzoic Acid||Benzoic acid and its salts are used as a food preservatives, represented bythe E-numbers E210, E211, E212, and E213. Benzoic acid inhibits the growth ofmold, yeast and some bacteria. It is either added directly or created fromreactions with its sodium, potassium, or calcium salt. The mechanism startswith the absorption of benzoic acid into the cell. If the intracellular pHchanges to 5 or lower, the anaerobic fermentation of glucose throughphosphofructokinase is decreased by 95%. The efficacy of benzoic acid andbenzoate is thus dependent on the pH of the food. Acidic food and beveragelike fruit juice , sparkling drinks , soft drinks, pickles  or other acidified food are preservedwith benzoic acid and benzoates.
Betulinic acid||A major inconvenience for the future clinical development of betulinic acidand analogues resides in their poor solubility in aqueous media such as bloodserum and polar solvents used for bioassays. To circumvent this problem ofhydrosolubility and to enhance pharmacological properties, many derivativeswere synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxic activity. One study showed C-20modifications involve the loss of cytotoxicity. Another study demonstrated theimportance of the presence of the -COOH group, since compounds substituted atthis position, such as lupeol and methyl betulinate, were less active on humanmelanoma than betulinic acid. Moreover, some C-28 amino acids and C-3phthalates derivatives exhibited higher cytotoxic activity against cancer celllines with improved selective toxicity and water solubility. Chatterjee _etal._ obtained the 28-O-β-D-glucopyranoside of betulinic acid by microbialtransformation with _Cunninghamella_ species, while _Baglin et al._ obtainedit by organic synthesis. This glucoside did not exhibit any significant _invitro_ activity on human melanoma  and human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell lines, which confirms the importance of the carboxylic acidfunction to preserve the cytotoxicity. Recently, Gauthier _et al._ synthesizeda series of 3- _O_ -glycosides of betulinic acid which exhibited a stronglypotent _in vitro_ anticancer activity against human cancer cell lines.
Caffeic acid||Studies of the carcinogenicity of caffeic acid have mixed results. Somestudies have shown that it inhibits carcinogenesis, and other experiments showcarcinogenic effects. Oral administration of high doses of caffeic acid inrats has caused stomach papillomas. In the same study, high doses ofcombined antioxidants, including caffeic acid, showed a significant decreasein growth of colon tumors in those same rats. No significant effect was notedotherwise. Caffeic acid is listed under some Hazard Data sheets as a potentialcarcinogen, as has been listed by the International Agency for Research onCancer as a Group 2B carcinogen ('possibly carcinogenic to humans'). Morerecent data show that bacteria in the rats' guts may alter the formation ofmetabolites of caffeic acid. Other than caffeic acid being a thiamineantagonist , there have been no known ill effects ofcaffeic acid in humans.
Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester||A variety of _in vitro_ pharmacology and effects in animal models have beenreported for CAPE, but their clinical significance is unknown. It hasantimitogenic, anticarcinogenic, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatoryproperties _in vitro_. Another study also showed that CAPE suppresses acuteimmune and inflammatory responses _in vitro_. This anti-cancer effect wasalso seen when mice skin was treated with bee propolis and exposed to TPA, achemical that induced skin papillomas. CAPE significantly reduced the numberof papillomas.
Caftaric acid||It is found in grapes  and impacts the color of whitewine. Many believe[ _who?_ ] this molecule is responsible for the yellowish-gold color seen in some whites wines[ _citation needed_ ]. Aside from wine, itis abundantly present in raisins. It also occurs in _Cichorium intybus_ and is one of the bioactive components of _Echinaceapurpurea_ .
Carglumic Acid||Carglumic acid is an orphan drug, marketed by Orphan Europe under thetrade name Carbaglu. Carglumic acid is used for the treatment ofhyperammonaemia in patients with _N_ -acetylglutamate synthasedeficiency. The initial daily dose ranges from 100 to 250 mg/kg,adjusted thereafter to maintain normal plasma levels of ammonia.
Carminic acid||Carminic acid  is a red glucosidal hydroxyanthrapurin thatoccurs naturally in some scale insects, such as the cochineal, Armeniancochineal, and Polish cochineal. The insects produce the acid as a deterrentto predators. An aluminum salt of carminic acid is the coloring agent incarmine. Synonyms are C.I. 75470 and C.I. Natural Red 4.
Carnosic acid||Carnosic acid is used as a preservative or antioxidant in food and nonfoodproducts (e.g. toothpaste, mouthwash and chewing gum -in which it has anantimicrobial effect on the microbes responsible for bad breath- or skin careproducts).[ _citation needed_ ]
Chebulagic acid||It has been found to be immunosuppressive, hepatoprotective, and apotent alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, a human gut enzyme useful indiabetic studies.
Chebulinic acid||Chebulinic acid is an ellagitannin found in the seeds of _Euphorialongana_ , in the fruits of _Terminalia chebula_ or in the leaves of _T.macroptera_.
Chenodeoxycholic Acid||Chenodeoxycholic acid is synthesized in the liver from cholesterol by aprocess which involves several enzymatic steps. Like other bile acids, itcan be conjugated in the liver with taurine or glycine, formingtaurochenodeoxycholate or glycochenodeoxycholate. Conjugation results in alower pKa. This means the conjugated bile acids are ionized at the usual pH inthe intestine and will stay in the gastrointestinal tract until reaching theileum where most will be reabsorbed. Bile acids form micelles which facilitatelipid digestion. After absorption, they are taken up by the liver andresecreted, so undergoing an enterohepatic circulation. Unabsorbedchenodeoxycholic acid can be metabolised by bacteria in the colon to form thesecondary bile acid known as lithocholic acid.
Chicoric acid||Cichoric acid has been shown to stimulate phagocytosis in both in vitro and invivo studies, to inhibit the function of hyaluronidase (an enzyme that breaksdown hyaluronic acid in the human body), to protect collagen from damage dueto free radicals, and to inhibit the function of HIV-1 integrase.
Chlorogenic acid||There is considerable ambiguity about the atom-numbering of chlorogenicacid. The order of numbering of atoms on the quinic acid ring was reversedin 1976 following IUPAC guidelines, with the consequence that 3-CQA became5-CQA, and 5-CQA became 3-CQA. This article uses the original numbering, whichwas exclusive prior to 1976, (chlorogenic acid being 3-CQA, whileneochlorogenic acid is 5-CQA). Thereafter researchers and manufacturers havebeen divided, with both numbering systems in use. Even the 1976 IUPACrecommendations are not entirely satisfactory when applied to some of the lesscommon chlorogenic acids.[ _unreliable source?_ ]
Cichoric Acid||Cichoric acid has been shown to stimulate phagocytosis in both in vitro and invivo studies, to inhibit the function of hyaluronidase (an enzyme that breaksdown hyaluronic acid in the human body), to protect collagen from damage dueto free radicals, and to inhibit the function of HIV-1 integrase.
Citric Acid||Some bacteria, notably _E. coli_ , can produce and consume citrate internallyas part of their TCA cycle, but are unable to use it as food because they lackthe enzymes required to import it into the cell. After tens of thousand ofevolution in a minimal glucose medium that also contains citrate duringRichard Lenski's Long-Term Evolution Experiment, a variant _E. coli_ evolvedwith the ability to grow aerobically on citrate. Zachary Blount, a student ofLenski's, and colleagues studied these 'Cit +' _E. coli_ as a modelfor how novel traits evolve. They found evidence that in this case theinnovation was immediately caused by a rare duplication mutation that waseffective in causing the trait due to the accumulation of several prior'potentiating' mutations, the identity and effects of which are still understudy. The evolution of the Cit + trait has been considered a notable exampleof the role of historical contingency in evolution.
Clofibric acid||Clofibric acid is a herbicide with the IUPAC name2--2-methylpropanoic acid and molecular formula C 10H11ClO3.It functions as a plant growth regulator against the plant hormone auxin.
Corosolic acid||Corosolic acid is a pentacyclic triterpene acid found in _Lagerstroemiaspeciosa_. It is similar in structure to ursolic acid, differing only in thefact that it has a 2-alpha-hydroxy attachment.
Cyclamic  acid||Cyclamic Acid is mainly used as catalyst in the production of paints andplastics, and furthermore as reagent for laboratories.
Cyclamic acid||Cyclamic Acid is mainly used as catalyst in the production of paints andplastics, and furthermore as reagent for laboratories.
Dehydroacetic acid||Dehydroacetic acid is an organic compound which has several industrialapplications. The compound is classified as a pyrone derivative. It presentsas an odorless, colorless to white crystalline powder, almost insoluble inwater and moderately soluble in most organic solvents. 
Dehydrocholic acid||Dehydrocholic acid is a synthetic bile acid, manufactured by the oxidationof cholic acid. It acts as a hydrocholeretic, increasing bile output to clearincreased bile acid load.
Deoxycholic acid||A number of factors, including diet, obesity, and exercise, affect the levelof deoxycholate in the human colon. When humans were switched from their usualdiet to a meat, egg and cheese based diet for five days, deoxycholate in theirfeces increased by factors of 2 to 10 fold. Rats, fed diets with either30% beef tallow  or 5% beef tallow  had almost 2-fold moredeoxycholate in their feces on the high fat compared to the low fat diet.In this study, adding the further dietary elements of curcumin or caffeicacid to the rats' high fat (30% beef tallow) diet reduced the deoxycholate intheir feces to levels comparable to levels seen in the rats on a low fat diet.Curcumin is a component of the spice turmeric, and caffeic acid is a componenthigh in some fruits and spices. Caffeic acid is also a digestive break-down product of chlorogenic acid, high in coffee and some fruits andvegetables.
Diatrizoic acid||Diatrizoic acid may be used as an alternative to barium sulfate for medicalimaging of the gastrointestinal tract, such as upper gastrointestinal seriesand small bowel series. It is indicated for use in patients who are allergicto barium, or in cases where the barium might leak into the abdominal cavity.It does not coat the stomach/bowel lining as well as barium, so it is not usedcommonly for this purpose.
Docosahexaenoic Acid||Some animals with access to seafood make little DHA through metabolism, butobtain it in the diet. However, in strict herbivores, and carnivores that donot eat seafood, DHA is manufactured internally from α-linolenic acid, ashorter omega-3 fatty acid manufactured by plants (and also occurring inanimal products as obtained from plants). Limited amounts of eicosapentaenoicand docosapentaenoic acids are possible products of α-linolenic acidmetabolism in young women and men, and though DHA is difficult to detectabove dietary background in males compared with females, this illustrates theimportance of DHA production for the developing fetus and healthy breastmilk. Rates of conversion are 15% higher for women, with those taking oralcontraceptives demonstrating 10% higher DHA levels.
Eicosapentaenoic Acid||The human body converts alpha-linolenic acid  to EPA. ALA is itself anessential fatty acid, an appropriate supply of which must be ensured. Theefficiency of the conversion of ALA to EPA, however, is much lower than theabsorption of EPA from food containing it. Because EPA is also a precursor todocosahexaenoic acid , ensuring a sufficient level of EPA on a dietcontaining neither EPA nor DHA is harder both because of the extra metabolicwork required to synthesize EPA and because of the use of EPA to metabolizeinto DHA. Medical conditions like diabetes or certain allergies maysignificantly limit the human body's capacity for metabolization of EPA fromALA.
Ellagic acid||Ellagic acid has been marketed as a dietary supplement with a range of claimedbenefits against cancer, heart disease, and other medical problems. Ellagicacid has been identified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a 'fakecancer 'cure' consumers should avoid'. A number of U.S.-based sellers ofdietary supplements have received Warning Letters from the Food and DrugAdministration for promoting ellagic acid with claims that violate the FederalFood, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Etidronic acid||Bisphosphonates primarily reduce osteoclastic activity, which prevents boneresorption, and thus moves the bone resorption/formation equilibrium towardthe formation side and hence makes bone stronger on the long run. Etidronate,unlike other bisphosphonates, also prevents bone calcification. For thisreason, other bisphosphonates, like alendronate, are preferred when fightingosteoporosis. To prevent bone resorption without affecting too much bonecalcification, etidronate must be administered only for a short time once in awhile, for example for two weeks every 3 months. When given on a continuousbasis, say every day, etidronate will altogether prevent bone calcification.This effect may be useful and etidronate is in fact used this way to fightheterotopic ossification. But in the long run, if used on a continuous basis,it will cause osteomalacia.
Fenofibric acid||In the United States, Tricor was reformulated in 2005. This reformulation iscontroversial, as it is seen as an attempt to stifle competition from genericequivalents of the drug, and is the subject of antitrust litigation bygeneric drug manufacturer Teva. Also available in the United States,Lofibra is available in 54 and 160 mg tablets, as well as 67, 134, and 200;mgmicronized capsules. Generic equivalents of Lofibra capsules are currentlyavailable in all three strengths in the United States. In Europe, it isavailable in either coated tablet or capsule; the strength range includes 67,145, 160 and 200 mg. The differences among strengths are a result of alteredbioavailability  due to particle size. Forexample, 200 mg can be replaced by 160 mg micronized fenofibrate. The 145 mgstrength is a new strength that appeared in 2005-2006 which also replaces 200or 160 mg as the fenofibrate is nanonised (i.e. the particle size is below 400nm).
Ferulic Acid||Ferulic acid is converted by certain strains of yeast, notably strains used inbrewing of wheat beers, such as _Saccharomyces delbrueckii_ ( _Torulasporadelbrueckii_ ), to 4-vinyl guaiacol  which givesbeers such as Weissbier and Wit their distinctive 'clove' flavour._Saccharomyces cerevisiae_ (dry baker's yeast) and _Pseudomonas fluorescens_are also able to convert trans-ferulic acid into 2-methoxy-4-vinylphenol.In _P. fluorescens_ , a ferulic acid decarboxylase has been isolated.
Flufenamic acid||Flufenamic acid is a member of the anthranilic acid derivatives (orfenamate) class of NSAID drugs :718 Like other members of the class, it isa COX inhibitor and prevents formation of prostaglandins. Flufenamic acidis known to bind to and reduce the activity of prostaglandin F synthase andactivate TRPC6.
Folic acid||Folate is necessary for the production and maintenance of new cells, for DNAsynthesis and RNA synthesis through methylation, and for preventing changes toDNA, and, thus, for preventing cancer. It is especially important duringperiods of frequent cell division and growth, such as infancy and pregnancy.Folate is needed to carry one-carbon groups for methylation reactions andnucleic acid synthesis (the most notable one being thymine, but also purinebases). Thus, folate deficiency hinders DNA synthesis and cell division,affecting hematopoietic cells and neoplasms the most because of their greaterfrequency of cell division. RNA transcription, and subsequent proteinsynthesis, are less affected by folate deficiency, as the mRNA can be recycledand used again (as opposed to DNA synthesis, where a new genomic copy must becreated). Since folate deficiency limits cell division, erythropoiesis,production of red blood cells, is hindered and leads to megaloblastic anemia,which is characterized by large immature red blood cells. This pathologyresults from persistently thwarted attempts at normal DNA replication, DNArepair, and cell division, and produces abnormally large red cells calledmegaloblasts  with abundant cytoplasm capableof RNA and protein synthesis, but with clumping and fragmentation of nuclearchromatin. Some of these large cells, although immature , arereleased early from the marrow in an attempt to compensate for the anemia.Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cellsand prevent anemia. Deficiency of folate in pregnant women has beenimplicated in neural tube defects ; therefore, many developed countrieshave implemented mandatory folic acid fortification in cereals, etc. NTDsoccur early in pregnancy , therefore women must have abundantfolate upon conception. Folate is required to make red blood cells and whiteblood cells and folate deficiency may lead to anemia, which causes fatigue,weakness and inability to concentrate.
Folinic acid||Folinic acid was discovered as a needed growth factor for the bacterium_Leuconostoc citrovorum_ in 1948, by Sauberlich and Baumann. This resulted init being called 'citrovorum factor,' meaning citrovorum growth factor. It hadan unknown structure, but was found to be a derivative of folate that had tobe metabolized in the liver before it could support growth of _L. citrovorum._The synthesis of citrovorum factor by liver cells in culture was eventuallyaccomplished from pteroylglutamic acid in the presence of suitableconcentrations of ascorbic acid. The simultaneous addition of sodium formateto such systems resulted in increased citrovorum factor activity in the cell-free supernatants , and fromthis method of preparation of large amounts of the factor, its structure aslevo-folinic acid  was eventually deduced. [_citation needed_ ]
Gallic acid||Gallic acid is an important component of iron gall ink, the standard Europeanwriting and drawing ink from the 12th to 19th centuries, with a historyextending to the Roman empire and the Dead Sea Scrolls. Pliny the Elder (23-79AD) describes the use of gallic acid as a means of detecting an adulterationof verdigris and writes that it was used to produce dyes. Galls (also knownas oak apples) from oak trees were crushed and mixed with water, producingtannic acid. It could then be mixed with green vitriol  —obtained by allowing sulfate-saturated water from a spring or mine drainage toevaporate — and gum arabic from acacia trees; this combination of ingredientsproduced the ink.
Gambogic Acid||A high dose of gambogic acid showed slight side effects on the mouse centralnervous system. In mice gambogic acid causes developmental toxicity in adose-dependent manner, including low birth weight and inhibitory effects onfetal skeletal development. Analyzing mice that received the 4 mg/kg and 8mg/kg doses, there was no substantial weight loss, no gastrointestinalreactions to medication, no obvious changes in any vital organs, and nofatalities. Previous toxicity experiments at the 30 mg/kg and 60 mg/kg levelalso concluded that there were no significant changes to vital organs (such asthe liver, heart, spleen, kidneys, lungs, testicles, and uterus) as well as nochanges in body weight or white blood cells in peripheral blood. At thehighest level of 120 mg/kg the primary toxic target organs were the liver andkidneys. At high doses in rats, the primary target of toxicity was found tobe the kidney and liver.
Geniposidic acid||Geniposidic acid is a natural chemical compound, classified as an iridoidglucoside, found in a variety of plants including _Eucommia ulmoides_ and_Gardenia jasminoides_.
Gentisic acid||In the laboratory, it is used as a sample matrix in matrix-assisted laserdesorption/ionization  mass spectrometry, and has been shown toconveniently detect peptides incorporating the boronic acid moiety byMALDI.
Glycochenodeoxycholic acid||Glycochenodeoxycholic acid is a bile salt formed in the liver fromchenodeoxycholic acid and glycine, usually found as the sodium salt. Itacts as a detergent to solubilize fats for absorption.
Glycyrrhizic acid||After oral ingestion, glycyrrhizin is first hydrolysed to 18β-glycyrrhetinicacid by intestinal bacteria. After complete absorption from the gut,β-glycyrrhetinic acid is metabolised to 3β-monoglucuronyl-18β-glycyrrhetinicacid in the liver. This metabolite then circulates in the bloodstream.Consequently, its oral bioavailability is poor. The main part is eliminated bybile and only a minor part (0.31–0.67%) by urine. After oral ingestion of600 mg of glycyrrhizin the metabolite appeared in urine after 1.5 to 14 hours.Maximal concentrations  were achieved after 1.5 to 39 hoursand metabolite can be detected in the urine after 2 to 4 days.
Homogentisic acid||Homogentisic acid  is a phenolic acidusually found in _Arbutus unedo_  honey. It is alsopresent in the bacterial plant pathogen _Xanthomonas campestris pv.phaseoli_ as well as in the yeast _Yarrowia lipolytica_ where it isassociated with the production of brown pigments. It is oxidatively dimerisedto form hipposudoric acid, one of the main constituents of the 'blood sweat'of hippopotamuses.
Homovanillic acid||Fasting plasma levels of HVA are known to be higher in females than in males.[_citation needed_ ] This does not seem to be influenced by adult hormonalchanges, as the pattern is retained in the elderly and post-menopausal as wellas transgender people according to their genetic sex, both before and duringcross-sex hormone administration. Differences in HVA have also beencorrelated to tobacco usage, with smokers showing significantly lower amountsof plasma HVA.
Hyaluronic acid||Cell migration is essential for the formation of granulation tissue. Theearly stage of granulation tissue is dominated by a HA-rich extracellularmatrix, which is regarded as a conducive environment for migration of cellsinto this temporary wound matrix. Contributions of HA to cell migration mayattribute to its physicochemical properties as stated above, as well as itsdirect interactions with cells. For the former scenario, HA provides an openhydrated matrix that facilitates cell migration, whereas, in the latterscenario, directed migration and control of the cell locomotory mechanisms aremediated via the specific cell interaction between HA and cell surface HAreceptors. As discussed before, the three principal cell surface receptors forHA are CD44, RHAMM, and ICAM-1. RHAMM is more related to cell migration. Itforms links with several protein kinases associated with cell locomotion, forexample, extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase , p125fak, andpp60c-src. During fetal development, the migration path throughwhich neural crest cells migrate is rich in HA. HA is closely associatedwith the cell migration process in granulation tissue matrix, and studies showthat cell movement can be inhibited, at least partially, by HA degradation orblocking HA receptor occupancy.
Ibandronic acid||Ibandronate is indicated for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis inpost-menopausal women. In May 2003, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Ibandronate as a daily treatment for post-menopausalosteoporosis. The basis for this approval was a three-year, randomized,double-blind, placebo-controlled trial women with post-menopausalosteoporosis. Every participant also received daily oral doses of calcium and400IUs [international units] of vitamin D. At the study's conclusion, bothdoses significantly reduced the occurrence risk of new vertebral fractures by50–52 percent when compared to the effects of the placebo drug.
Iopanoic acid||Iopanoic acid is an iodine-containing radiocontrast medium used incholecystography. Both iopanoic acid and ipodate sodium are potent inhibitorsof thyroid hormone release from thyroid gland, as well as of peripheralconversion of thyroxine  to triiodothyronine . These compoundsinhibit 5'deiodinase (5'DID-1 and 5'DID-2) enzymes, which catalyse T4-T3conversion in the thyroid cell, liver, kidney, skeletal muscle, heart, brain,pituitary. This accounts for the dramatic improvement in both subjective andobjective symptoms of hyperthyroidism, particularly when they are used as anadjunctive therapy with thioamides . They canbe used in the treatment of patients with severe thyrotoxicosis (thyroidstorm) and significant morbidity  forrapid control of elevated plasma triiodothyronine concentrations. The use ofiopanoic acid for treatment of thyrotoxicosis has been discontinued in theUnited States.
Iotalamic acid||Iotalamic acid  and its salts (INNIothalamates ) is an iodine-containing organic anion used as aradiocontrast agent. It is available as sodium iothalamate (Iothalamatesodium) and meglumine iothalamate . It can beadministered intravenously or intravesically .
Isoferulic acid||Isoferulic acid can be found, amongst other compounds, in _Lobeliachinensis_. An analysis of propolis from Henan, China found sinapinic acid,isoferulic acid, caffeic acid and chrysin, with the first three compoundsdemonstrating antibacterial properties.
Kojic acid||Kojic acid appears to possess marked protective  effects fromradiation-induced damage. It increased the 30-day survival rate of mice afterexposed to a lethal dose of gamma radiation and had significantradioprotective effects on the hematopoietic system, the immune system and DNAof mice exposed to a 4 Gy sublethal dose of radiation. Pretreatment with Kojicacid has been shown to protect Chinese hamster ovary cells against ionizingradiation-induced damage. Dogs pretreated with kojic acid after whole-bodyexposure to a lethal dose of 3 Gy gamma radiation had a 51-day survival rateof 66.7% versus the dogs in the 3 Gy irradiation only group, which all diedwithin 16 days of postirradiation.
Lauric acid||Lauric acid increases total serum cholesterol more than many other fattyacids. But most of the increase is attributable to an increase in high-densitylipoprotein  (the 'good' blood cholesterol). As a result, lauric acid hasbeen characterized as having 'a more favorable effect on total HDL cholesterolthan any other fatty acid [examined], either saturated or unsaturated'. Ingeneral, a lower total/HDL serum cholesterol ratio correlates with a decreasein atherosclerotic risk. Nonetheless, an extensive meta-analysis on foodsaffecting the total/LDL serum cholesterol ratio found in 2003 that the neteffects of lauric acid on coronary artery disease outcomes remaineduncertain. A 2016 review of coconut oil was similarly inconclusive about the effects on cardiovascular diseaserisk.
Levomefolic acid||Levomefolic acid  (also known as L-5-MTHF , L -methylfolateand L -5-methyltetrahydrofolate and -5-methyltetrahydrofolate,and -5-MTHF) is the primary biologically active form of folateused at the cellular level for DNA reproduction, the cysteine cycle and theregulation of homocysteine. It is also the form found in circulation andtransported across membranes into tissues and across the blood-brain barrier.In the cell, L-methylfolate is used in the methylation of homocysteine to formmethionine and tetrahydrofolate . THF is the immediate acceptor of onecarbon units for the synthesis of thymidine-DNA, purines  andmethionine. The un-methylated form, folic acid , is a syntheticform of folate, and must undergo enzymatic reduction bymethylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  to become biologically active.
Linoleic acid||GLA is converted to dihomo-γ-linolenic acid , which in turn is convertedto arachidonic acid . One of the possible fates of AA is to be transformedinto a group of metabolites called eicosanoids during the inflammatoryresponse and during physical activity; eicosanoids are a class of paracrinehormones. The three types of eicosanoids are prostaglandins, thromboxanes, andleukotrienes. Eicosanoids produced from AA tend to _promote_ inflammation and _promote_ growth during and after physical activity inhealthy humans. For example, both AA-derived thrombaxane and leukotrieneB4 are proaggregatory and vasoconstrictive eicosanoids during inflammation.The oxidized metabolic products of linoleic acid, such as9-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid and 13-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid, have also beenshown to activate TRPV1, the capsaicin receptor, and through this might play amajor role in hyperalgesia and allodynia.
Linolenic acid||Linolenic acid is a type of fatty acid. It can refer to either of twooctadecatrienoic acids (i.e. with an 18-carbon chain and three double bonds,which are found in the _cis_ configuration), or a mixture of the two.Linolenate  is oftenfound in vegetable oils; traditionally, such fatty acylates are reported asthe fatty acids:
Lipoic acid||The mechanism and action of lipoic acid when supplied externally to anorganism is controversial. Lipoic acid in a cell seems primarily to induce theoxidative stress response rather than directly scavenge free radicals. Thiseffect is specific for RLA. Despite the strongly reducing milieu, LA hasbeen detected intracellularly in both oxidized and reduced forms. LA isable to scavenge reactive oxygen and reactive nitrogen species in abiochemical assay due to long incubation times, but there is little evidencethis occurs within a cell or that radical scavenging contributes to theprimary mechanisms of action of LA. The relatively good scavengingactivity of LA toward hypochlorous acid (a bactericidal produced byneutrophils that may produce inflammation and tissue damage) is due to thestrained conformation of the 5-membered dithiolane ring, which is lost uponreduction to DHLA. In cells, LA is reduced to dihydrolipoic acid, which isgenerally regarded as the more bioactive form of LA and the form responsiblefor most of the antioxidant effects. This theory has been challenged dueto the high level of reactivity of the two free sulfhydryls, low intracellularconcentrations of DHLA as well as the rapid methylation of one or bothsulfhydryls, rapid side-chain oxidation to shorter metabolites and rapidefflux from the cell. Although both DHLA and LA have been found inside cellsafter administration, most intracellular DHLA probably exists as mixeddisulfides with various cysteine residues from cytosolic and mitochondrialproteins. Recent findings suggest therapeutic and anti-aging effects aredue to modulation of signal transduction and gene transcription, which improvethe antioxidant status of the cell. However, this likely occurs via pro-oxidant mechanisms, not by radical scavenging or reducing effects.
Lithocholic acid||At a concentration of 50uL, exogenously added LCA was found to extend the meanand maximum chronological lifespan of yeast. The bile acid accumulates inthe inner and outer mitochondrial membranes, altering the mitochondria's lipidcomposition by promoting or inhibiting various enzymes. The remodelling ofthe membranes changed the shape and number of mitochondria in the cell by increasing their size,  decreasing their numbers,  decreasing the numbercrista extending from the IMM and  increasing the number disconnectedcrista in the mitochondrial matrix.
Loganic acid||Loganic acid is an iridoid. Loganic acid is synthesized from7-deoxyloganic acid by the enzyme 7-deoxyloganic acid hydroxylase. It is a substrate for the enzyme loganate O-methyltransferasefor the production of loganin.
Maslinic acid|| _In vitro_ study shows that maslinic acid inhibits serine proteases, keyenzymes necessary for the spread of HIV within an individual's body. Italso has _in vitro_ antiproliferative effects on colon cancer cells.Maslinic acid increases EAAT2  glutamate reuptake and may reduceglutamatergic toxicity in rats.
Mefenamic acid||Mefenamic acid is a member of the anthranilic acid derivatives (orfenamate) class of NSAID drugs, and is used to treat mild to moderate pain,including menstrual pain, and is sometimes used to prevent migrainesassociated with menstruation. It is not widely used in the United Statesdue to its side effects and high cost compared to other NSAID drugs.:334
Mycophenolic acid||Cellcept was developed by a South African geneticist Anthony Allison and hiswife Elsie M. Eugui. In the 1970s while working at the Medical ResearchCouncil, Allison investigated the biochemical causes of immunune deficiency inchildren. He discovered the metabolic pathway involving an enzyme, inosinemonophosphate dehydrogenase, which is responsible for undesirable immuneresponse in autoimmune diseases, as well as for immune rejection in organtransplantation. He conceived an idea that if a molecule that could block theenzyme is discovered, then, it would become an immunosuppressive drug thatcould be used for autoimmune diseases and in organ transplantation. In 1981 hedecided to go for drug discovery and approached several pharmaceuticalcompanies, which turned him down one by one as he had no primary knowledge ondrug research. However, Syntex liked his plans and asked him to join thecompany with his wife. He became Vice President for the research. In oneof their experiments the Allisons used an antibacterial compound,mycophenolate mofetil, which was abandoned in clinical use due to its adverseeffects. They discovered that the compound had immunosuppressiveactivity. They synthesised a chemical variant for increased activityand reduced adverse effects. They subsequentlydemonstrated that it was useful in organ transplantation in experimentalrats. After successful clinical trials, the compound was approvedfor use in kidney transplant by the US Food and Drug Administration on 3 May1995, and was commercialised under the brand name CellCept.
Myristic acid||Nutmeg butter has 75% trimyristin, the triglyceride of myristic acid. Besidesnutmeg, myristic acid is also found in palm kernel oil, coconut oil,butterfat, 8-14% of bovine milk, and 8.6% of breast milk as well as being aminor component of many other animal fats. It is also found in spermaceti,the crystallized fraction of oil from the sperm whale. It is also found in therhizomes of the Iris, including Orris root. It also comprises 14.49%of the fats from the fruit of the Durian species _Durio graveolens_.
Nalidixic acid||Hives, rash, intense itching, or fainting soon after a dose may be a sign ofanaphylaxis. Common adverse effects include rash, itchy skin, blurred ordouble vision, halos around lights, changes in color vision, nausea, vomiting,and diarrhea. Nalidixic acid may also cause convulsions and hyperglycaemia,photosensitivity reactions, and sometimes haemolytic anaemia,thrombocytopenia or leukopenia. Particularly in infants and young children,has been reported occasionally increased intracranial pressure.
Neochlorogenic acid||Neochlorogenic acid is a natural polyphenolic compound found in some typesof dried fruits and a variety of other plant sources such as peaches. It isan isomer of chlorogenic acid.
Niflumic acid||Niflumic acid is a drug used for joint and muscular pain. It iscategorized as an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2. In experimental biology, ithas been employed to inhibit chloride channels. It has also been reportedto act on GABA-A and NMDA channels and to block T-type calciumchannels.
Nordihydroguaiaretic acid||The creosote plant has been used in herbal medicine, but its use iscontroversial. It was widely used during the 1950s as a food preservative andto preserve natural fibers, but was later banned after reports of toxicityduring the early 1960s. Recently, it has been used as a nutritionalsupplement; however, renal toxicity and hepatotoxicity are reported forchronic use of creosote bush and NDGA.
Okadaic acid||Okadaic acid  and its relatives are known to strongly inhibit proteinphosphatases, specifically serine/threonine phosphatases. Furthermore, ofthe 4 such phosphatases, okadaic acid and its relatives specifically targetprotein phosphatase 1  and protein phosphatase 2A , at theexclusion of the other two, with dissociation constants for the two proteinsof 150 nM and 30 pM respectively. Because of this, this class of moleculeshas been used to study the action of these phosphatases in cells. OnceOA binds to the phosphatase protein, it results in hyperphosphorylation ofspecific proteins within the afflicted cell, which in turn reduces controlover sodium secretion and solute permeability of the cell. Affinitybetween okadaic acid and its derivatives and PP2A has been tested, and it wasshown that the only derivative with a lower dissociation constant, andtherefore higher affinity, was DTX1, which has been shown to be 1.6 timesstronger. Furthermore, for the purpose of determining the toxicity ofmixtures of different okadaic acid derivatices, inhibitory equivalency factorsfor the relatives of okadaic acid have been studied. In wild type PP2A, theinhibitory equivalency relative to okadaic acid were 0.9 for DTX-1 and 0.6 forDTX-2.
Oleanolic Acid||Oleanolic acid can be found in olive oil, _Phytolacca americana_ (Americanpokeweed), and _Syzygium_ spp, garlic, etc. It was first studied and isolatedfrom several plants, including _Olea europaea_ , _Rosawoodsii_ , _Prosopis glandulosa_ , _Phoradendronjuniperinum_ , _Syzygium claviflorum_ , _Hyptis capitata_, _Mirabilis jalapa_ and _Ternstroemia gymnanthera_ (aerialpart). Other _Syzygium_ species including java apple ( _Syzygium samarangense_) and rose apples contain it.
Oleic acid||Triglycerides of oleic acid compose the majority of olive oil, although theremay be less than 2.0% as free acid in virgin olive oil, with higherconcentrations making the olive oil inedible. It also makes up 59-75% ofpecan oil, 61% of canola oil, 36-67% of peanut oil, 60% of macadamiaoil, 20-85% of sunflower oil , 15-20%of grape seed oil, sea buckthorn oil, and sesame oil, and 14% of poppyseedoil. It also comprises 22.18% of the fats from the fruit of the durian species_Durio graveolens_. It is abundantly present in many animal fats,constituting 37 to 56% of chicken and turkey fat and 44 to 47% of lard.
Orotic acid||In ornithine transcarbamoylase deficiency, an X-linked inherited and the mostcommon urea cycle disorder, excess carbamoyl phosphate is converted intoorotic acid. This leads to an increased serum ammonia level, increased serumand urinary orotic acid levels and a decreased serum blood urea nitrogenlevel. This also leads to an increased urinary orotic acid excretion, becausethe orotic acid is not being properly utilized and must be eliminated. Thehyperammonemia depletes alpha-ketoglutarate leading to the inhibition of thetricarboxylic acid cycle  decreasing adenosine triphosphate production.
Oxolinic acid||Oxolinic acid is a quinolone antibiotic developed in Japan in the1970s. Dosages 12–20 mg/kg orally administered for five to ten days. Theantibiotic works by inhibiting the enzyme DNA gyrase. It also acts as adopamine reuptake inhibitor and has stimulant effects in mice.
Pachymic acid||Pachymic acid is a natural triterpenoid chemical that can be extractedfrom the root of various _Pinus_ species, where it is produced by parasiticfungus _Wolfiporia extensa_ . The dried sclerotiaof the fungus is used as a traditional Chinese medicine, and pachymic acid isone of the major bioactive components of it.
Palmitic acid||Excess carbohydrates in the body are converted to palmitic acid. Palmitic acidis the first fatty acid produced during fatty acid synthesis and is theprecursor to longer fatty acids. As a consequence, palmitic acid is a majorbody component of animals. In humans, one analysis found it to make up 21–30% of human depot fat, and it is a major, but highly variable, lipidcomponent of human breast milk. Palmitate negatively feeds back on acetyl-CoA carboxylase , which is responsible for converting acetyl-CoA tomalonyl-CoA, which in turn is used to add to the growing acyl chain, thuspreventing further palmitate generation. In biology, some proteins aremodified by the addition of a palmitoyl group in a process known aspalmitoylation. Palmitoylation is important for membrane localisation of manyproteins.
Pamidronic acid||It is used to prevent bone loss, and treat osteoporosis. It is also used tostrengthen bone in Paget's disease, to prevent bone loss due to steroid use,and in certain cancers with high propensity to bone, such as multiple myeloma.Due to its ability to sequester calcium in bone, it is also used to treat highcalcium levels. It is also used as an experimental treatment of the bonedisorder osteogenesis imperfecta. It has been studied in the treatment ofcomplex regional pain syndrome.
Petroselinic acid||Petroselinic acid is a fatty acid that occurs naturally in several animaland vegetable fats and oils. It is a white powder and is commerciallyavailable. In chemical terms, petroselinic acid is classified as amonounsaturated omega-12 fatty acid, abbreviated with a lipid number of 18:1cis-6. It has the formula CH 310CH=CH4COOH. The term 'petroselinic'means related to, or derived from, oil of _Petroselinum_ , parsley.Petroselinic acid is a positional isomer of oleic acid.
Phloretic acid||It is found in the rumen of sheep fed with dried grass and is produced byhydrogenation of the 2-propenoic side chain of p-coumaric acid. It is alsoan urinary metabolite of tyrosine in rats.
Phytic acid||This compound is not obtained from the animal diet, but must be synthesizedinside the cell from phosphate and inositol (which in turn is produced fromglucose, usually in the kidneys). The interaction of intracellular phytic acidwith specific intracellular proteins has been investigated _in vitro_ , andthese interactions have been found to result in the inhibition or potentiationof the physiological activities of those proteins. The best evidencefrom these studies suggests an intracellular role for phytic acid as acofactor in DNA repair by nonhomologous end-joining. Other studies usingyeast mutants have also suggested intracellular phytic acid may be involved inmRNA export from the nucleus to the cytosol. There are still major gaps inthe understanding of this molecule, and the exact pathways of phytic acid andlower inositol phosphate metabolism are still unknown. As such, the exactphysiological roles of intracellular phytic acid are still a matter ofdebate.
Pipemidic acid||Pipemidic acid is a member of the pyridopyrimidine class ofantibacterials, which display some overlap in mechanism of action withanalogous pyridone-containing quinolones.
Piromidic acid||Piromidic acid is a quinolone antibiotic.
Protocatechuic acid||PCA has been reported to induce apoptosis of human leukemia cells, as well asmalignant HSG1 cells taken from human oral cavities, but PCA was found tohave mixed effects on TPA-induced mouse skin tumours. Depending on the amountof PCA and the time before application, PCA could reduce or enhance tumourgrowth. Similarly, PCA was reported to increase proliferation and inhibitapoptosis of neural stem cells. In an _in vitro_ model using HL-60leukemiacells, protocatechuic acid showed an antigenotoxic effect and tumoricidalactivity.
Quinic acid||Quinic acid is a cyclitol, a cyclic polyol, and a cyclohexanecarboxylicacid. It is a crystalline acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee beans, andother plant products and made synthetically by hydrolysis of chlorogenic acid.Quinic acid is also implicated in the perceived acidity of coffee. It is aconstituent of the tara tannins.
Retinoic acid||Retinoic acid is a morphogen signaling molecule, which means it isconcentration dependent. Other molecules that interact with RA are FGF-8, Cdxand Hox genes, all participating in the development of various structureswithin the fetus. For example, this molecule plays an important role inhindbrain development. The hindbrain differentiates into the brain stem andserves as a major signaling center during the initial development of theheart. Retinoic acid gradient is vital in somite formation, as well as theformation of the atria in the heart. Malformations can arise when theconcentration of RA is in excess or deficient. The hindbrain becomes enlargedwhen there is excess RA, hindering the growth of other parts of the brain.Other abnormalities that can occur are missing or fused somites and problemswith the aorta and large vessels within the heart. With an accumulation ofthese malformations, an individual can be diagnosed with DiGeorgesyndrome. However, since RA partakes in various developmental processesabnormalities are not just limited to sites associated with DiGeorge syndrome.Retinoic acid is essential throughout an individual’s lifetime, but it iscritical during pregnancy. Without the proper concentrations of this molecule,severe abnormalities can be present and even fatal to the growing fetus.Knockout experiments have been conducted and results have shown that improperconcentrations of RA can lead to abnormal development, most experimentsconcentrated on hindbrain development.
Risedronic acid||In January 2006 P&G and its marketing partner Sanofi-Aventis filed a LanhamAct false claims lawsuit against rival drugmakers Roche and GlaxoSmithKlineclaiming false advertising about Boniva. The manufacturers of Boniva, arival bisphosphonate, were accused in the suit of causing a 'serious publichealth risk' through misrepresentation of scientific findings. In a ruling onSeptember 7, 2006 U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty rejected P&G's attemptedinjunction. P&G was criticized for attempting to 'preserve its market share bydenigrating Boniva'. Judge Crotty wrote that 'Roche was clearly entitled torespond with its own data, provided that the data was truthfully andaccurately presented'.
Rosmarinic acid||The biosyntheses of rosmarinic acid uses 4-coumaroyl-CoA from the generalphenylpropanoid pathway as hydroxycinnamoyl donor. The hydroxycinnamoylacceptor substrate comes from the shikimate pathway: shikimic acid, quinicacid and 3,4-dihydroxyphenyllactic acid derived from L-tyrosine. Thus,chemically, rosmarinic acid is an ester of caffeic acid with3,4-dihydroxyphenyllactic acid, but biologically, it is formed from4-coumaroyl-4'-hydroxyphenyllactate. Rosmarinate synthase is an enzyme thatuses caffeoyl-CoA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenyllactic acid to produce CoA androsmarinate. Hydroxyphenylpyruvate reductase is also an enzyme involved inthis biosynthesis.
Salicylic acid||As a topical agent and as a beta-hydroxy acid (and unlike alpha-hydroxyacids), salicylic acid is capable of penetrating and breaking down fats andlipids, causing moderate chemical burns of the skin at very highconcentrations. It may damage the lining of pores if the solvent is alcohol,acetone or an oil. Over-the-counter limits are set at 2% for topicalpreparations expected to be left on the face and 3% for those expected to bewashed off, such as acne cleansers or shampoo. 17% and 27% salicylic acid,which is sold for wart removal, should not be applied to the face and shouldnot be used for acne treatment. Even for wart removal, such a solution shouldbe applied once or twice a day – more frequent use may lead to an increase inside-effects without an increase in efficacy.
Shikimic acid||In the pharmaceutical industry, shikimic acid from the Chinese star anise (_Illicium verum_ ) is used as a base material for production of oseltamivir. Although shikimic acid is present in most autotrophic organisms, itis a biosynthetic intermediate and in general found in very lowconcentrations. The low isolation yield of shikimic acid from the Chinese staranise is blamed for the 2005 shortage of oseltamivir. Shikimic acid can alsobe extracted from the seeds of the sweetgum fruit, which is abundant in North America, in yields of around 1.5%. Forexample, 4 kg of sweetgum seeds is needed for fourteen packages of Tamiflu. Bycomparison, star anise has been reported to yield 3 to 7% shikimic acid.Biosynthetic pathways in _E. coli_ have recently been enhanced to allow theorganism to accumulate enough material to be used commercially. A2010 study released by the University of Maine showed that shikimic acid canalso be readily harvested from the needles of several species of pinetree.
Sinapic acid||Sinapinic acid , or sinapic acid (Sinapine - Origin: L. Sinapi, sinapis,mustard, Gr., cf. F. Sinapine.), is a small naturally occurringhydroxycinnamic acid. It is a member of the phenylpropanoid family. It is acommonly used matrix in MALDI mass spectrometry. It is a useful matrixfor a wide variety of peptides and proteins. It serves well as a matrix forMALDI due to its ability to absorb laser radiation and to also donate protons(H+) to the analyte of interest.
Stearic acid||Being inexpensively available and chemically benign, stearic acid finds manyniche applications, for example, in making plaster castings from a plaster_piece mold_ or _waste mold_ and in making the mold from a shellacked clayoriginal. In this use, powdered stearic acid is mixed in water and thesuspension is brushed onto the surface to be parted after casting. This reactswith the calcium in the plaster to form a thin layer of calcium stearate,which functions as a release agent. When reacted with zinc it forms zincstearate, which is used as a lubricant for playing cards  toensure a smooth motion when fanning. In compressed confections, it is used asa lubricant to keep the tablet from sticking to the die.
Syringic acid||It is also present in wine. Its presence in the ancient Egyptian drink shedehcould confirm it was made out of grape, as syringic acid is released by thebreakdown of the compound malvidin, also found in red wine. It is also foundin vinegar.
Tannic acid||Tannic acid is used in the conservation of ferrous  metal objectsto passivate and inhibit corrosion. Tannic acid reacts with the corrosionproducts to form a more stable compound, thus preventing further corrosionfrom taking place. After treatment the tannic acid residue is generally lefton the object so that if moisture reaches the surface the tannic acid will berehydrated and prevent or slow any corrosion. Tannic acid treatment forconservation is very effective and widely used but it does have a significantvisual effect on the object, turning the corrosion products black and anyexposed metal dark blue. It should also be used with care on objects withcopper alloy components as the tannic acid can have a slight etching effect onthese metals.
Taurochenodeoxycholic acid||Taurochenodeoxycholic acid is a bile acid formed in the liver of mostspecies, including humans, by conjugation of chenodeoxycholic acid withtaurine. It is secreted into bile and then into intestine. It is usuallyionized at physiologic pH, although it can be crystallized as the sodium salt.It acts as detergent to solubilize fats in the small intestine and is itselfabsorbed by active transport in the terminal ileum. It is used as a cholagogueand choleretic.
Tauroursodeoxycholic acid||A study from the Department of Physiology in University of Alicante, inAlicante, Spain, shows the effects of TUDCA in the P23H transgenic rat, amodel of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. The transgenic rats wereinjected with TUDCA once a week starting from P21 until P120, along withvehicle-administered controls. At P120, the functionality of the retina wasexamined via ERG and immunoflourescent microscopy. The amplitude of the a- andb- waves were considerably higher in TUDCA treated rats, compared to thecontrol group. Photoreceptor density in the center of the retina was three-fold greater in TUDCA treated rats. Also, TUNEL results showed smaller amountsof TUNEL-positive cells. The synaptic contacts amongst photoreceptor cells,bipolar cells, and horizontal cells were preserved in the TUDCA treated P23Hrats. Additionally, the synaptic terminals in the outer plexiform layer wereof greater density that in control rats. The neuroprotective effects of TUDCAare not only preserving retinal morphology and function, but also its synapticcontacts, a potentially useful aspect in delaying RP.
Tolfenamic Acid||Tolfenamic acid  is a member of the anthranilic acidderivatives  class of NSAID drugs discovered by scientists atMedica Pharmaceutical Company in Finland. Like other members of the class,it is a COX inhibitor and prevents formation of prostaglandins.
Tranexamic acid||In March 2011 the status of tranexamic acid for treatment of heavy menstrualbleeding was changed in the UK, from PoM  to P and became available over the counter in UKpharmacies under the brand names of Cyklo-F and Femstrual, initiallyexclusively for Boots pharmacy, which has sparked some discussion aboutavailability. (In parts of Europe it had then been available OTC for overa decade.[ _citation needed_ ]) Regular liver function tests are recommendedwhen using tranexamic acid over a long period of time.
Ursolic acid||In mice, ursolic acid induces neural regeneration after sciatic nerveinjury. Ursolic acid improves domoic acid-induced cognitive deficits inmice. Ursolic acid improves high fat diet-induced cognitive impairments byblocking endoplasmic reticulum stress and IκB kinase β/nuclear factor-κB-mediated inflammatory pathways in mice. Ursolic acid attenuateslipopolysaccharide-induced cognitive deficits in mouse brain throughsuppressing p38/NF-κB mediated inflammatory pathways. Ursolic acidameliorates cognition deficits and attenuates oxidative damage in the brain ofsenescent mice induced by D-galactose. Ursolic acid enhances mouse liverregeneration after partial hepatectomy. Ursolic acid enhances the cellularimmune system and pancreatic beta-cell function in streptozotocin-induceddiabetic mice fed a high-fat diet. UA increased skeletal muscle mass, aswell as grip strength and exercise capacity. Improved endurance, reduced theexpression of the genes involved in the development of muscle atrophy, anddecreased indicators of accumulated fatigue and exercise-induced stress.Ursolic acid ameliorates aging-metabolic phenotype through promoting ofskeletal muscle rejuvenation.[ _unreliable medical source?_ ]
Valerenic acid||Valerenic acid acts as a subtype-selective GABAA receptor positive allostericmodulator via a binding site in the transmembrane domain at the β+α−interface. At receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes  it wasshown that only assemblies incorporating β2 or β3 subunits were stimulated byvalerenic acid. Modulation of ion channel action was not significantlydependent on incorporation of α1, α2, α3 or α5 subunits.
Valproic acid||Valproate causes birth defects; exposure during pregnancy is associatedwith about three times as many major abnormalities as usual, mainly spinabifida with the risks being related to the strength of medication used and useof more than one drug. More rarely, with several other defects,possibly including a 'valproate syndrome'. Characteristics of thisvalproate syndrome include facial features that tend to evolve with age,including a triangle-shaped forehead, tall forehead with bifrontal narrowing,epicanthic folds, medial deficiency of eyebrows, flat nasal bridge, broadnasal root, anteverted nares, shallow philtrum, long upper lip and thinvermillion borders, thick lower lip and small downturned mouth. Whiledevelopmental delay is usually associated with altered physicalcharacteristics , this is not always the case.
Vanillic acid||Vanillic acid  is adihydroxybenzoic acid derivative used as a flavoring agent. It is an oxidizedform of vanillin. It is also an intermediate in the production of vanillinfrom ferulic acid.
Zoledronic Acid||Atypical fractures : After approving the drug on 8 July 2009, the EuropeanMedicines Agency conducted a class review of all bisphosphonates, includingZoledronate, after several cases of atypical fractures were reported. In2008, the EMA's Pharmacovigilance Working Party  noted that alendronicacid was associated with an increased risk of atypical fracture of the femurthat developed with low or no trauma. In April 2010, the PhVWP noted thatfurther data from both the published literature and post-marketing reportswere now available which suggested that atypical stress fractures of the femurmay be a class effect. The European Medicines Agency then reviewed all casereports of stress fractures in patients treated with bisphosphonates, relevantdata from the published literature, and data provided by the companies whichmarket bisphosphonates. The Agency recommended that doctors who prescribebisphosphonate-containing medicines should be aware that atypical fracturesmay occur rarely in the femur, especially after long-term use, and thatdoctors who are prescribing these medicines for the prevention or treatment ofosteoporosis should regularly review the need for continued treatment,especially after five or more years of use.
