Protein Kinase C||The regulatory domain or the amino-teminus of the PKCs contains several sharedsubregions. The C1 domain, present in all of the isoforms of PKC has a bindingsite for DAG as well as non-hydrolysable, non-physiological analogues calledphorbol esters. This domain is functional and capable of binding DAG in bothconventional and novel isoforms, however, the C1 domain in atypical PKCs isincapable of binding to DAG or phorbol esters. The C2 domain acts as a Ca2+sensor and is present in both conventional and novel isoforms, but functionalas a Ca2+ sensor only in the conventional. The pseudosubstrate region, whichis present in all three classes of PKC, is a small sequence of amino acidsthat mimic a substrate and bind the substrate-binding cavity in the catalyticdomain,lack critical serine, threonine phosphoacceptor residues, keeping theenzyme inactive. When Ca2+ and DAG are present in sufficient concentrations,they bind to the C2 and C1 domain, respectively, and recruit PKC to themembrane. This interaction with the membrane results in release of thepseudosubstrate from the catalytic site and activation of the enzyme. In orderfor these allosteric interactions to occur, however, PKC must first beproperly folded and in the correct conformation permissive for catalyticaction. This is contingent upon phosphorylation of the catalytic region,discussed below.
Protein S||Protein S can bind to negatively charged phospholipids via the carboxylatedGla domain. This property allows Protein S to function in the removal of cellswhich are undergoing apoptosis. Apoptosis is a form of cell death that is usedby the body to remove unwanted or damaged cells from tissues. Cells, which areapoptotic , no longer actively manage thedistribution of phospholipids in their outer membrane and hence begin todisplay negatively charged phospholipids, such as phosphatidyl serine, on thecell surface. In healthy cells, an ATP -dependentenzyme removes these from the outer leaflet of the cell membrane. Thesenegatively charged phospholipids are recognized by phagocytes such asmacrophages. Protein S can bind to the negatively charged phospholipids andfunction as a bridging molecule between the apoptotic cell and the phagocyte.The bridging property of Protein S enhances the phagocytosis of the apoptoticcell, allowing it to be removed 'cleanly' without any symptoms of tissuedamage such as inflammation occurring.
S100 protein||Most S100 proteins are homodimeric, consisting of two identical polypeptides,which are held together by non-covalent bonds. S100 proteins are structurallysimilar to calmodulin. On the other hand, they differ from calmodulin on theother features. For instance, their expression pattern is cell-specific, i.e.they are expressed in particular cell types. Their expression depends onenvironmental factors. To contrast, calmodulin is a ubiquitous and universalintracellular Ca2+ receptor widely expressed in many cells.
Tau Protein||Tau protein is a highly soluble microtubule-associated protein . Inhumans, these proteins are found mostly in neurons compared to non-neuronalcells. One of tau's main functions is to modulate the stability of axonalmicrotubules. Other nervous system MAPs may perform similar functions, assuggested by tau knockout mice that did not show abnormalities in braindevelopment - possibly because of compensation in tau deficiency by otherMAPs. Tau is not present in dendrites and is active primarily in thedistal portions of axons where it provides microtubule stabilization but alsoflexibility as needed. This contrasts with MAP6  proteins in theproximal portions of axons, which, in essence, lock down the microtubules andMAP2 that stabilizes microtubules in dendrites.
